It's definitely convenient when any model can be wrapped in a Triton docker image, as we learned to do in [tritoned_bert](https://github.com/psytechlab/tritoned_bert). We need this to make it more convenient to deliver our two models together with the platform. But 14-16 gigabytes of each such image size raises some questions, to put it mildly. Too bloated in terms of overhead to package one BERT at 700-800 MB. We started looking for ways to reduce its size. Literally the first link in Google we found a [guide](https://docs.nvidia.com/deeplearning/triton-inference-server/user-guide/docs/customization_guide/build.html) on the official site.

> The easiest way to build Triton is to use Docker.

As I write this now, I can't imagine what level of shamanism you need to possess to build without Docker.

In short, to reduce container size, you need to remove features you don't need. By default, a Triton image like `tritonserve:xx.xx-py3` includes everything: all backends, including Torch, TensorFlow, ONNX, Python, TensorRT and several others, GPU support, metrics and other things I don't even know about. The idea is that Triton is deployed as one service into which you can load multiple external models for any framework. In such a scenario, there's no problem that the docker image weighs a dozen and a half gigabytes.

But from the heavyweights, we only use ONNX and only on CPU. Why only CPU? Because we don't yet expect the models to process 100,500 requests per second. If we feel we need to increase speed, we can always enable GPU, although before that step we can tinker with ONNX settings. Therefore, we can probably throw out 90 percent of the full image content.

After a two-day shamanic ritual, this guide was born on how to build a custom Triton image.

# Instructions
1. Download the [server repository](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server)

2. Switch to the `r24.05` branch - this is the only release that we managed to build. Possibly some slightly newer or older ones might also build. The newest ones, like `25.01` or `25.03` (as of writing on 02.05.2025), for some reason use Ubuntu as the base container, but the package manager in the Dockerfile is yum instead of apt for some reason. Very old releases, like `22.12` which was originally used, or some from 2023 that we tested, don't build because the Boost cross-platform library can't be downloaded. The link is no longer active. ([issue](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server/issues/6333), another [issue](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server/issues/7997) with build problems for different releases).

3. Apply the patch shown below with the command `git apply fix.patch`. This patch disables OpenVINO (despite the fact that no one was enabling it in the build command anyway), because during installation there's a version conflict for CMAKE. Here's a [comment from the issue](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server/issues/8126#issuecomment-2785136898) that explains exactly how this happens and provides an example solution to the problem via patch.

```diff
diff --git a/build.py b/build.py
index e0b66036..455ead8b 100755
--- a/build.py
+++ b/build.py
@@ -685,17 +685,17 @@ def onnxruntime_cmake_args(images, library_paths):
         ):
             cargs.append(
                 cmake_backend_enable(
-                    "onnxruntime", "TRITON_ENABLE_ONNXRUNTIME_OPENVINO", True
-                )
-            )
-            cargs.append(
-                cmake_backend_arg(
-                    "onnxruntime",
-                    "TRITON_BUILD_ONNXRUNTIME_OPENVINO_VERSION",
-                    None,
-                    TRITON_VERSION_MAP[FLAGS.version][3],
+                    "onnxruntime", "TRITON_ENABLE_ONNXRUNTIME_OPENVINO", False
                 )
             )
+            #cargs.append(
+            #    cmake_backend_arg(
+            #        "onnxruntime",
+            #        "TRITON_BUILD_ONNXRUNTIME_OPENVINO_VERSION",
+            #        None,
+            #        TRITON_VERSION_MAP[FLAGS.version][3],
+            #    )
+            #)
 
         if target_platform() == "igpu":
             cargs.append(
```

4. Execute the command:
```bash
$ ./build.py --backend=python --backend=ensemble --backend=onnxruntime --backend=python --enable-logging --enable-stats --enable-metrics --enable-tracing --endpoint=http --enable-cpu-metrics
```
At first I forgot to enable logging and couldn't understand where the logs were, then I forgot to enable the endpoint and couldn't understand why the server wasn't starting up. See the complete list of backends in the official documentation.

5. Execute the command:
```bash
$ docker tag tritonserver:latest your/triton_name:your_tag
```

It seemed like victory: the image built, the server started. I make a request and get this response:
```json
{"error":"in ensemble 'ensemble_model', Failed to process the request(s) for model instance 'text_preprocessing_0_0', message: error: unpack_from requires a buffer of at least 387389211 bytes for unpacking 387389207 bytes at offset 4 (actual buffer size is 27)\n\nAt:\n  /opt/tritonserver/backends/python/triton_python_backend_utils.py(117): deserialize_bytes_tensor\n"}
```
What the heck???

This time, it turned out to be due to `numpy`. The container ended up with version >2.0 and this brings compatibility issues with types. Here's the [issue](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server/issues/7391) where I found what's what. I installed `numpy=1.26.4`, which was released in February 2024 and is the last release before `numpy==2.0` that came out in June 2024, and it finally worked.

New images with models now weigh not a crazy 16 gigabytes, but only two (we cut out 87.5%). Moreover, half of the latter is model files. I think we could reduce it by another 1.5 times, but this result satisfies us. We've already integrated it into tritoned-bert, we'll update it on GitHub soon. The separate image is located here: [astromis/tritonserver:24.05-onnx-python-cpu](https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/astromis/tritonserver/general) (if the link or Docker is unavailable, try replacing `astromis` with `psytechlab` first).

Pay attention to the issue links that helped me solve the arising problems. In such moments you feel the power of community and open source.

