
Any ML engineer at some point asks the question: 'How do I deploy my models?' We found the answer to this long ago: it's Triton Inference Server, developed by Nvidia.
It has plenty of different advantages:

* the core is written in C++, but you can use it with Python;
* omnivorous — it can handle models in Torch, ONNX, OpenVINO, TensorFlow, Scikit-learn, vLLM and just Python scripts;
* supports inference of multiple models simultaneously;
* can combine models in sequences (ensembles);
* API interface via HTTP and gRPC;
* various features for accelerating inference, like dynamic batching.

Next, we'll tell you the necessary minimum about Triton and how we use it in our project. You can read about it in detail in the [official guide](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/tutorials/tree/main/Conceptual_Guide) on GitHub, which will walk you through the complete service creation cycle. Link to the repository with our project: [tritoned_bert](https://github.com/psytechlab/tritoned_bert).

# Minimal service configuration
The Triton developers clearly tried to make it so that users would need minimal effort to integrate their models with the service. Let's examine the minimum steps you need to take.

In the root folder of the project, create a folder and name it `model_repository`. Inside it, create another folder with the model name. This same name will be used in the API. Inside the model folder, create another folder named `1` and a file `config.pbtxt`. The folder `1` will store the model itself, and the number in the name indicates its version. The minimal configuration content looks like this:
```
platform: "tensorrt_plan"
max_batch_size: 8
input [
  {
    name: "input0"
    data_type: TYPE_FP32
    dims: [ 16 ]
  },
]
output [
  {
    name: "output0"
    data_type: TYPE_FP32
    dims: [ 16 ]
  }
]
```
So you need to specify:

* the model framework (platform);
* maximum batch size — other Triton mechanisms depend on this setting and it's not quite the same as the batch size during training;
* input and output data configurations, which are represented as lists of dictionaries.

As you might guess, the keys in the data configuration are:

* name — the name of the specific input/output. This is what will appear in the API.
* data_type — data type, where would we be without it;
* dims — dimensionality of the input/output vector (tensor, in general form)

Place the model in the folder `model_repository/your_model_name/1`. That's it, you can start it:
```bash
$ docker run --gpus=all -it --shm-size=256m --rm -p8000:8000 -p8001:8001 -p8002:8002 -v $(pwd)/model_repository:/models nvcr.io/nvidia/tritonserver:22.12-py3 
```
To properly choose the base Docker image for your GPU, if you want to use it, see [this guide](https://docs.nvidia.com/deeplearning/frameworks/support-matrix/index.html).

# Running Python scripts on the Triton side
We deployed the model, but it accepts tensors as input and returns tensors as output. If we deploy some BERT for text classification, we first need to tokenize the text to convert it into vectors, and we need to perform at least an argmax over the model's logits to find out the final class. To avoid forcing every service client to carry this logic themselves, we can create a Python 'model' that will do this on the Triton side.

To pull off such a trick, you need to define this template class:
```python
class TritonPythonModel:
    def initialize(self, args):
        ...
    def execute(self, requests):
        ...
    def finalize(self):
        ...
```

The method names speak for themselves. The `pb_utils` package will greatly help you in implementing the model, which has various functions for type conversion — you can feel the C++ influence — and creating special Triton objects, such as tensors. In addition, there are various conditions for the `execute` method, such as how many requests came in, that many responses should be returned. Read more about this in the documentation.

Here's an example implementation of `execute` for our prediction postprocessing model, where argmax is performed and class index mapping to its name occurs:
```python
def execute(self, requests):
    responses = []

    for request in requests:
        in_0 = pb_utils.get_input_tensor_by_name(
            request, "logits"
        ).as_numpy()

        predicts = in_0.argmax(axis=1)
        predicts = np.array([self.id2label[x] for x in predicts], dtype=object)
        out_tensor_0 = pb_utils.Tensor("predicts", predicts)

        inference_response = pb_utils.InferenceResponse(
            output_tensors=[out_tensor_0]
        )
        responses.append(inference_response)
    return responses

```

It should be emphasized that we have made the most basic implementation so far, there isn't even any error handling or logging here.

# Ensembles
Well, we have two 'models' for pre- and post-processing and the BERT model itself. How do we make all this work together? For this, Triton has ensembles — kind of meta-models that can run regular models in a specific order.

The structure is the same: in the folder with the ensemble name there should be a `config.pbtxt` file and an empty folder `1`. The config content differs. In it, besides describing inputs and outputs, you need to describe the model execution sequence `ensemble_scheduling`. It's also mandatory to specify the mapping of input and output names, even if they match.

You can see what such a config looks like for our service by following the [link](https://github.com/psytechlab/tritoned_bert/blob/main/model_repository/ensemble_model/config.pbtxt.template) — it's quite large to paste here.

# Our Triton services template
We want it to be super easy to integrate third-party models into our system. To do this, we developed a template that will allow you to turn your BERT model for classification into a Triton service. All you need is a saved model in Hugging Face format, our repository, and a couple of dependencies. [We opened the repository](https://github.com/psytechlab/tritoned_bert), you can try it. Remember that it's still in development, so there might be issues. If anything, create an issue or write directly to @Astromis on Telegram.

Using the template is simple: you need to run the script `./make_triton_image.sh`, passing it the following parameters:

* path to the model in Hugging Face format;
* path to the tokenizer;
* path to the dictionary where keys are class indices and values are class names.

In addition, there are optional parameters:

* model_name — model name. If not passed, it will be ensemble model. Will also name the container.
* container_tag — actually, of course, the docker image tag. By default, latest.
* max_batch_size — maximum batch size that the server will process.

Then with bash magic, the templates will turn into specific configurations, your model will be converted to ONNX and all this will be sewn into a Triton docker image named tritoned_[model_name]:[container_tag]. It's important to say that the base docker image doesn't change yet, because the template is built so that the service will work on CPU. We will add the ability to choose the mode, as well as the base container, later.

You can run the container like this:
```bash
$ docker run --shm-size=256m -p8000:8000 -p8001:8001 -p8002:8002  tritoned_[model_name]:[container_tag]
```
You can test it like this:
```bash
$ curl -X POST http://127.0.0.1:8000/v2/models/ensemble_model/infer -d '{"inputs":[{"name":"text_input","shape":[1,1],"datatype":"BYTES","data":["test text"]}]}'
```

# What is this ONNX you're talking about?
What is this anyway? This is Open Neural Network Exchange — an open standard for representing neural network architecture. It is supported by probably all neural network frameworks you can think of. "Support" means that frameworks can export the network object to this format. With equal success, it can be imported into these frameworks. If you imagine a situation where you get your hands on some onnx-model, then you will be able to view its structure using [netron](https://github.com/lutzroeder/netron), code it on any framework supporting ONNX, and use it.

Besides portability, ONNX has another feature — its own runtime environment onnxruntime, which allows even on regular CPU to inference models with greater speed compared to the original frameworks. And you can also utilize hardware capabilities. There is a [post](https://habr.com/ru/companies/selectel/articles/696782/) on Habr where you can visually see speed comparisons. In addition, ONNX tools allow simple and fast model quantization if you're ready to sacrifice quality for speed.

Maybe you think that export to ONNX is complex? Literally one line, both in [transformers (more precisely optimum)](https://huggingface.co/docs/optimum/v1.3.0/en/onnxruntime/modeling_ort):
```python
ort_model = ORTModelForSequenceClassification.from_pretrained(model_path, export=True) 
```
and in [torch](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/onnx.html):
```python
torch.onnx.export(model, ...)
```
This is the line we use for conversion in our utility `utils/convert_to_onnx.py`.

By the way, the utility will understand not only local path, but also address in Hugging Face Hub and Clearml. If you want, you can easily add another storage, for example, WandB, Artifactory, MLFlow, etc. Model and tokenizer need to be specified separately. On one hand, it's inconvenient, but on the other hand, tokenizer and model can be stored in different places. This is relevant when you fine-tune one base model a lot. In such case, saving the tokenizer every time is redundant; it's enough to simply specify the base model's tokenizer. Example command for conversion:
```bash
$ python utils/convert_to_onnx.py -m models/best_model -t "deeppavlov/RuBert" --where_model local --where_tokenizer hf
```

That's all, stay in touch.

