
Time flies fast, especially for those who are busy with something. It feels like we just wrote our May devlog, and it's already been four days since students and schoolchildren sat down at their desks. In the next two devlogs, we'll tell you how our summer went, what we're doing now, and what our plans are.

# How we performed in St. Petersburg
At the end of May, our head went to St. Petersburg for the CBTFORUM conference, which is organized by the Association of Cognitive-Behavioral Therapy. There he talked about our Kitoboy platform. Among other things, we found a connection with the head of the "Open Doors" project and started a joint pilot project.

By the way, on October 12th she is holding her conference in St. Petersburg, where she invited us as well. The most interesting part is the panel discussion, where psychotherapists will discuss AI prospects for their work. We will be there representing the developers of these tools.

Besides this discussion, there will of course be regular presentations. We will have a big presentation in two parts. In the first part, we will introduce psychologists to neural networks more closely, and in the second part we will talk about how AI is applied in psychology beyond "psychologist chatbots".

If you want to participate, tickets can be purchased [here](https://socialcabinet.ru/opendoorsconf?utm_source=telegram&utm_medium=post&utm_campaign=chat&utm_content=august&utm_term=2025). The format is both online and offline.

# How we translated datasets using LLMs
There are many wonderful datasets that solve various psychological tasks. However, there's a problem. They are all in English. It would be one thing if it were just expensive to annotate them, but sometimes you can hardly find such data at all. Wouldn't it be great to translate such datasets from one language to another?

Someone might say, what's stopping us from using, say, Yandex.Translator? Well, nothing really. They would translate somehow. But what if you need to ensure the translation of some substring, like in the EPITOME dataset, where besides text markup there's also markup of separate text parts that determine why a particular class is assigned? Where's the guarantee that a simple translator can translate a substring so that it can be found in the source text? This is where LLMs come onto the scene. They can translate correctly, preserve style, can be controlled, and offer rich variety.

How we did this, we [talked about at Data Fest](https://youtu.be/ZkydkhQvO64), which took place on May 31st. Soon we'll prepare a separate post for those who don't like watching videos.

Using this pipeline, we translated several datasets:
* [psytechlab/epitome-reddit-ru](https://huggingface.co/datasets/psytechlab/epitome-reddit-ru) - a dataset with empathy level markup in dialogue turns. This is where it all started.
* [psytechlab/EmpatheticIntents-ru](https://huggingface.co/datasets/psytechlab/EmpatheticIntents-ru) - a large (once upon a time) dialogue dataset with emotion markup for clients and strategy markup for therapists.
* [psytechlab/ESConv-ru](https://huggingface.co/datasets/psytechlab/ESConv-ru) - also a dialogue dataset with strategy markup for therapists.
* [psytechlab/cognitive_distortions_dataset_ru](https://huggingface.co/datasets/psytechlab/cognitive_distortions_dataset_ru) - a dataset where sentences containing cognitive distortions, which are often worked with in the CBT paradigm, are highlighted.
* [psytechlab/cognitive_distortions_gpt4_dataset_ru](https://huggingface.co/datasets/psytechlab/cognitive_distortions_gpt4_dataset_ru) - the same as the previous one, but generated using GPT4.

We are now actively researching translation search mechanisms that could be improved. We are also currently working on a unified structure into which all these datasets can be integrated for ease of use.

To be continued.

